---
id: 32f7e843-edab-496e-88da-5b79b1fe5e0a
title: 2020.12.10
desc: making some progress in metacognition
updated: 1607653430121
created: 1607650145036
parent: af8f2575-2184-4526-adf8-7765daa7b97e
children: []
fname: journal.2020.12.10
hpath: journal.2020.12.10
---
# good mythical morning (it's 8pm)

So I was thinking of bees earlier (10 minutes ago). And I thought, _hey. wouldn't it be neat if i had a section on beekeeping in my uhhh knowledge base._ So that of COURSE got me thinkg _okay but how would i integrate that into my uhhh knowledge base_.

## dendron

make like bees.md and there's your shit. bees.hive, bees.troubleshootin, bees.food or some shit. or just bees w headings for shit (amoeba baby)

## tiddly

if i wanna do it just like mr andy i'd make my person meander over toward beekeeping. my person being me (local) or not me (hosted elsewhere). and like okay, kinda cute if they're wending through "welcome to my kitchen" and end up at "ideal hive structure and materials" they'd be like **uhm. what the fuck?** otherwise i'd sorta do like 'tis now and have the categories on the front page for organization purposes

## bluedot

(i honestly don't even know what else to call it www) again, just make a category for beekeeping and slap those babies in there. interestingly enough, i'd have to sort of put my own structure into it since it's only got two levels of categories, right? categor(y/ies) > entry (with optional external URLs).

# analysis

so you get what I see? the way I sort of look at things, my knowledge naturally separates into topics. i just like it like that. and so in, say, andy m's or nesslab's structure, you just sort of jump in which is like AHHHH because I want to know where i'm entering the stream! so i've made a small step in figuring out that yes, i def want categories. which is also kinda funny bc all the systems i've explored so far are based on hierarchy, or i've moved in that direction from the start. so i guess this isn't really a profound revelation but still. neat!

