---
id: 4c625e03-9f76-4ffd-a950-5c54447fca5f
title: Cognition
desc: amoeba
updated: 1607835927155
created: 1607834530154
parent: ab333b54-759d-4674-83cf-d0cc3529c38d
children: []
fname: cognition
hpath: cognition
---
Embodied cognition
: cognitive processes taking place in the body but outside the brain. Example: octopus arms have their own neurons

- the body codes the workings of the mind (deprivileging the mind/intellect)

> [The mind is] not a kind of software being run on the logical-processesing unit of the brain.
> The body and mind are inseparable. We distinguish between them, but the reality is they are one and the same.

Extended cognition
: cognitive processes taking place through external apparati. Example: spiderwebs taking in/storing information through vibrations. (technology??)

- the spiderwebs piece reminds me of the Adrian Tchaikovsky novel, _Children of Time_, which includes an advanced race of spiders who communicate, think, and do basically everything with their webs. Guess that's where he got it from!
- is language an instance of extended cognition, or is it only a tool we use to extend our cognition? 
- the connection to Marx's theory that "we only become conscious in and through the world and its history" is tenuous imo. Like how are products of labor (that do, I agree, reflect our conscious) related to extended cognition?
  - these objects are expression, not cognition. although perhaps i'm limiting myself in my conception of objects
    > And the world of inert objects might think too, in slow and strange ways which we can only borrow for a moment, and which disappear again into what sounds like silence.
    > Hmmm... Equal parts physics and randomness? It seems the author casts a wide net when it comes to cognition — more like autonomous/self-ordered systems than things that can "think."

Ref:
[Kriss, “You Think With the World, Not Just Your Brain.”](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/10/extended-embodied-cognition/542808/)

* * *

HOT TAKE: spiderwebs are an instance of extended cognition. ie webs are cognitive apparati that serve as sensory organs, of a sort, for the spider.

- Animal cognition strategies
  - embodied (octopus)
  - specialized senses (UV vision)
  - structures outside neural system (spiders?)
    ```
    - ❓ are there examples of non-neuronal info processing in other species? I feel like it can't be that rare...
    - is, say, the cane used by a vision-impaired person an example?
    ```
    ❓ What is the difference between a tool and an extended cognition apparatus?
- According to Japyassú, cognition = acquiring, manipulating, and storing info. Critics say cognition must also include _interpretation_ of that information into an "abstract, meaningful representation of the world."
  - smells like centering of the intellect to me, boss
  - do more research on theories of cognition?

Niche construction
: animals making specialized structures like nests, dams etc.

- interplay with structure and environment ultimately causes changes in the organism, therebyy changing the structure.... (extended phenotype)

> “It is conceivable for cognition to be a property of a system with integrated nonbiological components,” Cross and Jackson write. “That seems to be where Homo sapiens is headed.”

Ref:
[Quanta, “Does a Spider Use Its Web Like You Use Your Smartphone?”](https://www.theatlantic.com/science/archive/2017/05/spider-brain-spider-brain/528153/)

