---
id: cc480ed0-1a42-424b-9165-48907604ea33
title: Screen As Room
desc: ''
updated: 1607449616510
created: 1607402615429
parent: 9b9069d1-9675-4589-bdf5-4bc84356ed84
children: []
fname: tech.spatial.screenasroom
hpath: tech.spatial.screenasroom
---
# Screen As Room[^1]

  Christoph Labacher

- :link: [John Palmer essays](https://darkblueheaven.com/spatialsoftware/)
- "space as model": spatial qualities (overlapping windows) code/dictate relationships, interactions
- "subjective and metaphoric properties of rooms"; focusing on the manmade, constructed aspect of _rooms_ rather than static, blank _spaces_
- interfaces as children of architecture rather than film — the difference? **Agency.**
  - choice to move through a space (screens), experience piecemeal at your own discretion

1. Sense of Agency
   - Le Corbusier's Promenade: a composed architectural experience considered from various angles
   - Emphasis on the experience of passing through a space
   - "options for possibilities of action" have all been considered, framed, and constructed

2. Sense of Proportion
   - devs can make a site feel large or small, as architects can make a space feel cozy or spacious

3. Sense of Protection
   - boundary or enclosure?
   - (im)permeability of that barrier between this "room" and the outside. smaller and easier to work with, but risk not being able to scale (not sure what he means)
   - "Rhetorical boundaries": implied boundaries
     - how do these manifest in digital spaces?

4. Base for Customization
   - adaptability and longevity of buildings... in digital space? :thinking: adaptive reuse?
   - "how adaptable ... are our interfaces?"
     - the Windows phone example, balancing clarity (grid) with customization (your order)
   - :link: [End User Programming](https://www.inkandswitch.com/end-user-programming.html#why-end-user-programming)

5. A Shared Space

     Proxemics
     : nonverbal communication through the use of space

     Social Presence Theory
     : transmission of social cues through various media; indicators of presence _e.g. "Online" status, cursor position, etc_

   - space as an entire medium for communication (think closing the door when you want privacy)
   - room as Agent! A sense of Place is created through habit, use, and play; the room becomes a player

6. Shaper of Behavior

   - we swiftly understand the _constraints_ on our actions in a new software or environment; a good dev ensures they feel like logical trains of thought/behavior, not constraints

   Place
   : a space permeated by social norms. Highly ritualized.[^2]

   Nudge theory
   : spatial order of objects can influence interactions (salad bar at the front of the line)

7. Purposefully Articulated Space
   - "dev-built" house, software meets needs piecemeal rather than holistically. thus the whole is not harmoniously composed
   - great design can only occur when many questions/problems are neglected in favor of a handful?
     > Forced simplicity results in oversimplification. […] Where simplicity cannot work, simpleness results. Blatant simplification means bland architecture. Less is a bore.[^3]

[#article](7c526272-8110-46a2-b1ff-cb09765161ec)

[^1]&#x3A; [“Screen As Room: An Architectural Perspective on User Interfaces,” Christoph Labacher, accessed December 8, 2020, https://www.christophlabacher.com/notes/screen-as-room.](https://www.christophlabacher.com/notes/screen-as-room)

[^2]&#x3A; [David Kolb, “Real Places in Virtual Spaces,” Nordic Journal of Architectural Research, Nordic Association for Architectural research, 19, no. 3 (2006).](http://www.dkolb.org/rpvs.pdf)

[^3]&#x3A;Robert Venturi, 1966: “Complexity and Contradiction in Architecture” [p. 17]

